editorial: Clarify language in VSA spec (#882)
slsa-framework/slsa: docs/verification_summary/v1.md

Reviewer: Could you update the PR title and description to be more, er, descriptive?

- title: summarize the change rather than just "update for v1.1"
- desc: Could you go into more detail? "Update the introduction" doesn't really explain how the intro was changed or why, and similarly for why the fields are now optional or why the section on verifying VSAs is warranted.

This is also a breaking change (change to required field) so we should use the `BREAKING CHANGE:` footer as per https://www.conventionalcommits.org/en/v1.0.0/.

Author: Done.

There's a lot of content in this PR. Do you think the summary does it justice?

Reviewer: Personally I would go into more detail, particularly to explain the reason for the change. Something like:

- Clarify that VSA can be used to express verification of things other than the SLSA Level. Previously this was technically possible, but it was only mentioned in one sentence (under SlsaResult). Now the purpose, model, and field documentation make this explicit.
- Make fields `policy` and `timeVerified` optional because [...]
- Add new "How to verify" section, including examples. Previously it was unclear to many readers exactly how VSAs were intended to be used, leading to possible mistakes. Now we make this explicit. This also brings the VSA spec up to parity with Provenance, which already has such a section.
- Add a `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED` entry because [...]
- Explain why `resourceUri` is required.
- Other edits for clarity.

Hmm, this PR is getting a bit big. Might make sense to split...

Author: +1 to splitting the PR. I'll keep "how to verify" in this one and move the rest to new ones.

Reviewer: I'm worried that this new version is in a weird limbo where it's half SLSA-specific and half generic. For example, it's not clear if you need to list a SLSA build level even if you're saying nothing about the build level.

Would it make sense to make it fully generic and perhaps move it to the in-toto repo? Moving it to in-toto would have the side benefit of avoiding a SLSA version number bump.

Note that provenance would still remain within the SLSA repo because it's inextricably tied to the SLSA build model and SLSA build levels. VSA, on the other hand, seems actually quite generic.

Author: I've been wondering the same thing. I don't have an answer, but I've got a couple of questions/thoughts that may help shape the decision.
- Do we expect VSAs that communicate strictly non-SLSA properties (e.g. an attestation for a property explicitly out of SLSA's scope)? If so, we should try to move the VSA spec out of slsa-framework. 
- Does SLSA expect to support any attestations that would be alternatives to VSA? If so, then we should update the spec with a more general description of a summary attestation and its minimum requirements to convey SLSA provenance faithfully. 

If we do keep the VSA spec under slsa-framework, then the community needs to articulate a clearer vision of its role in the SLSA ecosystem. If nothing else, we should update the "How-to SLSA" pages with more VSA examples.

layout: standard
---

Verification summary attestations convey high-level information about an
artifact's verification, allowing  consumers to delegate verification decisions
to trusted third parties.

## Purpose

> Assert that the verifier has verified an artifact or set of artifacts. Optionally

Reviewer: Throughout the doc, "verifier" is ambiguous. Is it the entity producing the VSA (verifying some other artifact) or the entity checking the VSA (verifying the VSA itself). We need more precise terminology. A simple diagram might also help to give a quick visual.

Maybe "VSA Producer" and "VSA Consumer"? (This was in an earlier comment by @laurentsimon. Raising visibility here.)

include details about the verification process, such as the verified SLSA
level(s) and the verifier's expectations.

VSAs allow software consumers to make a decision about the validity of an
artifact without needing to have access to all of the attestations about the

> artifact or all of its transitive dependencies. They can use it to delegate

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
artifact or all of its transitive dependencies. Consumers can use VSAs to delegate
```

complex policy decisions to some trusted party and then simply trust that
party's decision regarding the artifact.

> They also allow software producers to keep the details of their build pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
VSAs also allow software producers to keep the details of their build pipeline
```

A Verification Summary Attestation (VSA) is an attestation that some entity
(`verifier`) verified one or more software artifacts (the `subject` of an
in-toto attestation [Statement]) by evaluating the artifact and a `bundle`
of attestations against some `policy`.  Users who trust the `verifier` may
assume that the artifacts met the indicated SLSA level without themselves
needing to evaluate the artifact or to have access to the attestations the
`verifier` used to make its determination.

The VSA also allows consumers to determine the verified levels of
all of an artifact’s _transitive_ dependencies.  The verifier does this by
either a) verifying the provenance of each non-source dependency listed in
the [resolvedDependencies](/provenance/v1#resolvedDependencies) of the artifact
being verified (recursively) or b) matching the non-source dependency
listed in `resolvedDependencies` (`subject.digest` ==
`resolvedDependencies.digest` and, ideally, `vsa.resourceUri` ==
`resolvedDependencies.uri`) to a VSA _for that dependency_ and using
`vsa.verifiedLevels` and `vsa.dependencyLevels`.  Policy verifiers wishing
to establish minimum requirements on dependencies SLSA levels may use

> `vsa.dependencyLevels` to do so.

Reviewer: We seem to have lost this level of detail, e.g. checking `vsa.resourceUri` against `provenance.resolvedDependencies.uri`. Should this go somewhere as well? Perhaps a new "How to produce" section?

Alternatively should this detail go in the SLSA Provenance "How to verify" section, since it's more about provenance?

/cc @TomHennen

Reviewer 3: Actually I think not mentioning those here is better.

The check of `vsa.resourceUri` and `provenance.resolvedDependencies.uri` really belongs to the topic of policy and verification: i.e. VSA is intended for short-circuiting verification on a certain policy, and the URI matching is *an opinionated way* to check whether the short-circuit is permitted.

In order for that to work, there are some implicit assumptions, namely 1) the policy being evaluated is completely determined by the URIs; 2) there is a 1:1 mapping between the URIs and policies; 3) both `vsa.resourceUri` and `provenance.resolvedDependencies.uri` follow the same specs.

We could either spend a lot of energy fully flesh out all these, and in the end we just described one way it can work ... or, we just leave a high-level description that "the verifier can use VSA to short-circuit policy verification when appropriate" and leave the decision of what is appropriate to the verifiers?

> dependencies all at once, the verifier can verify each one independently and

Reviewer 2: `dependencies all at once, the verifier can verify each one independently
`
"each one" = provenance? artifact? dependency?

Author: Dependency.

> `dependencyLevels`.

Reviewer 2: ```
Finally, the verifier combines those VSAs, with the artifact acting
as the final VSA's `subject` and each transitive dependency being an entry in
`dependencyLevels`.
```
Just for clarity's sake, I'd suggest simplifying the construction after the comma. Something like: "Finally, the verifier combines those VSAs; the artifact is
the final VSA's `subject` and each transitive dependency is an entry in
`dependencyLevels`."

Author: Done

> A Verification Summary Attestation (VSA) is an attestation that some entity

Reviewer 2: These first two sentences are a little confusing to me. The first one says evaluated against "some policy" -- the "some" implied that it's not a specific policy. Then the second sentence drills down and specifies the policy is "resourceUri."Are VSAs only evaluated against that one policy? If so, are two sentences needed? I went back and forth a few times trying to see if there was another difference between the statements, but I don't think there is.

(`verifier`) verified one or more software artifacts (the `subject` of an
in-toto attestation [Statement]) by evaluating the artifact and an

> attestation against some `policy`.  Specifically, a VSA is a claim by

Reviewer 3: > the artifact and an attestation

Could this be "the artifact and its associated attestations"?
A policy verification may involve multiple attestations, for example attestations of vulnerability scanning, and/or SLSA provenances for transitive dependencies.

Reviewer 4: re: multiple attestation types. Currently SLSA only supports build attestations `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_X`, so it may be better to defer mentioning different attestation types when the corresponding tracks are created?

Reviewer 3: Even with just the SLSA provenance, there could still be the use case for transitive dependency verification. E.g. a policy specifies that "all transitive dependencies must be built by at least level X". The verification would then involve recursively checking build materials and verifying their respective SLSA provenances.

Reviewer 5: Though SLSA only includes build provenance today I would push for us to be open about allows VSA to support non-SLSA attestations.

Reviewer 6: 100%  We'd like to use VSAs as a generic vehicle to summarize all the policy decisions an org might make.  Some things that start as non-SLSA may also become SLSA in the future.  Allowing them in the VSA now allows the same infrastructure to be used for all the decisions a user of software might need to make.

Reviewer 4: I'm fine with being open. My main worry is around consistency with the rest of the specs and avoiding confusion for readers. If we say that VSAs can attest to other attestation types, I'd personally be confused what it means, given that other attestation types don't have a level associated with them (the current wording is around `SLSA level`). 
`by evaluating the artifact and its associated attestation(s) against some policy` LGTM!
/cc @olivekl

> `verifier` that `subject` passed the policy for `resourceUri`. Users who trust

Reviewer 6: I don't think it should be.  The policies themselves aren't necessarily public, so consumers shouldn't have to read those policies.

> `verifier` that `subject` passed the policy for `resourceUri`. Users who trust

Author: I agree with @TomHennen, though now that I think about it should we disallow a policy without verifiedLevels? I can't think of a use for that combination.

> `verifier` that `subject` passed the policy for `resourceUri`. Users who trust

Reviewer 6: An verifier might have some policy but not have a canonical way to abbreviate that policy in verifiedLevels.

I've always thought of the policy field to be helpful to folks debugging issues, but not necessarily required for most users of the VSA.

Would there be any harm in allowing policy to be set if verifiedLevels is empty?

> `verifier` that `subject` passed the policy for `resourceUri`. Users who trust

Author: No, I don't see any harm in leaving it. I was mainly throwing out the idea to see if anyone had a use in mind (which it seems you do).

> `verifier` that `subject` passed the policy for `resourceUri`. Users who trust

Reviewer 4: fine on my end as well. Clarifying in the doc if possible, in case others ask the same questions later

> `verifier` that `subject` passed the policy for `resourceUri`. Users who trust

Author: Done

the `verifier` may assume that the artifacts identified by the
`(subject, resourceUri)` pair met the indicated SLSA level without
themselves needing to evaluate the artifact or to have access to the

> attestations the `verifier` used to make its determination.

Reviewer 2: There's a lot of terms in this paragraph (and page overall). Is there a link to definitions that I missed? If not, it'd be great to add that at the top of the page.

> The VSA also allows consumers to determine the verified levels of

Reviewer 2: I think this section is saying: if the transitive dependencies have VSAs themselves, then this VSA summarizes them also. And if there's provenance but no VSA for a dependency, this top-level VSA will summarize the provenance, essentially creating transitive VSAs within a top-level VSA. And if there's no provenance for dependencies, the VSA does nothing for them.

Is that correct?

Reviewer 3: The basic idea is that, the `dependencyLevels` in a VSA summarizes the *policy verification results* for all transitive dependencies.

The policy verification result of a dependency could either come from an "actual" verification, i.e. evaluation the provenance of the dependency against a policy for the dependency Uri; or from a VSA that summarizes a prior policy verification on this dependency.

Effectively, VSA functions as a verification "shortcut" -- if a matching and valid VSA is found, the verifier no longer needs to evaluate the artifact provenance and its entire dependency sub-tree.

---
If a dependency has no VSA nor provenance, what happens really depends on the policy for its Uri.
- If the policy says "evaluation at L0" (effectively bypasses the provenance check), then the recursive verification will pass at L0;
- Otherwise, since a provenance is required but missing, the recursive verification will fail.

The `dependencyLevels` in the dependent's VSA will record the recursive verification results accordingly.

Reviewer 2: Ah, interesting, thanks! @kpk47 would you be open to including some of this language? This explanation makes sense to me, but I'm not sure I'd have gleaned that from the current paragraph.

Author: I gave it a go, but went slightly higher level and removed the decision points. @olivekl @AdamZWu does my summary make sense to you and match your understanding of the chained verification process?

> URI indicating the verifier’s identity.

<a id="timeVerified"></a>
`timeVerified` _string ([Timestamp]), optional_

> Timestamp indicating what time the verification occurred.

<a id="resourceUri"></a>
`resourceUri` _string ([ResourceURI]), required_

> URI that identifies the resource associated with the artifact being verified.
>
> This field is required to prevent confusion attacks. E.g., a VSA indicating
> that a package can be published as `foo` should not be usable to publish
> the package as `bar`; a VSA indicating that a package passed the policy for
> a `dev` environment should not be usable to deploy the package to a `prod`
> environment.

<a id="policy"></a>
`policy` _object ([ResourceDescriptor]), optional_

> Describes the policy that the `subject` was verified against.
>

> > This field is RECOMMENDED.

Reviewer: Why is it recommended? (or alternatively just remove the recommendation if we don't have a good reason)

> URI indicating the verifier’s identity.

<a id="timeVerified"></a>
`timeVerified` _string ([Timestamp]), optional_

> Timestamp indicating what time the verification occurred.

<a id="resourceUri"></a>
`resourceUri` _string ([ResourceURI]), required_

> URI that identifies the resource associated with the artifact being verified.
>
> This field is required to prevent confusion attacks. E.g., a VSA indicating

> > that a package can be published as `foo` should not be useable to publish

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
> that a package can be published as `foo` should not be usable to publish
```
I think "usable" is preferred in en_US? It's usually me trying to sneak en_GB spellings into the spec :-D

> Either “PASSED” or “FAILED” to indicate if the artifact passed or failed the policy verification.

<a id="verifiedLevels"></a>

> `verifiedLevels` _array ([SlsaResult]), optional_

Reviewer 6: It's implicit (given the definition of SlsaResult) that users can put things besides SLSA levels here.  Would it make any sense to make that explicit in the documentation for the field too?

Something like "Users may add any additional, non-SLSA, properties they like to this list so long as they do not conflict with SlsaResult" ?

Author: Done

Reviewer 4: It's unclear to me why we're trying to support non SLSA results. Is this in anticipation for future changes in the specs?

Reviewer 6: The motivation for non-SLSA results was discussed some in #663, #801,  and #878.

Author: I am switching this field back to required, but I believe is consistent with adding `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED`. If any producer feels strongly about not setting this field, they can set it to an empty array.

Reviewer 4: re: non-SLSA results. Something to keep in mind is what happens when a verifying tool encounters a non-SLSA fields that it does not understand. iiuc, verification will fail open. In x509, they mark extensions as "critical": if a verifier encounters a critical extension that it does not understand, it must fail (fail safe). Is this relevant to VSAs?

It would also be useful to provide some guidance how verifiers should name non-SLSA fields, to avoid collision with (future) SLSA fields.

Base on the two comments above, it could look like:
```json
"claims": [
  {
    "name": "slsa.dev/verifiedLevels"
    "critical": true,
    "value": _list_
  },
  {
    "name": "slsa.dev/resourceUri"
    "critical": false, // Verification is optional
    "value": "some-name"
  },
]
```

Reviewer 4: Created https://github.com/slsa-framework/slsa/issues/899 for tracking. Resolving

> `verifiedLevels` _array ([SlsaResult]), optional_

Reviewer: After some discussion and thinking, I'm now leaning towards keeping this field as required with the caveat below.

Previously, my thinking was that if party A wanted simply check that party B said the artifact was OK, then that should be possible. It shouldn't be required to invent a level if it doesn't actually care. In essence, it is just trusting that *any* VSA from B is OK, equivalent to traditional code signing.

However, similar to making `verifier.id` REQUIRED, it seems reasonable to keep this required and add guidance that, if you don't care, invent some fixed string here. The reason why it's required is for future flexibility. If you just rely on `verifier`, then if you want to change the implicit meaning of the VSA, you need to create a completely new verifier ID (i.e. a new trust root). But if you add a string here, then it's easier - you just create a new string. This doesn't seem like a very difficult requirement.

So I'm OK with either, but I'd lean towards keeping it to make verification have fewer special cases.

Author: All good points. I could also go either way, so I decided to keep the field as OPTIONAL to prevent confusion in cases where the verifier is fully delegating the decision to the VSA producer (e.g. publish attestations).

Reviewer 4: I'm worried of unsafe use cases: If we don't ask end-users to verify explicitly, will they simply forget to do so in practice?

> Indicates the highest level of each track verified for the artifact (and not
> its dependencies), or "FAILED" if policy verification failed.
>
> VSA producers MUST NOT include more than one level per SLSA track. Note that
> each SLSA  level implies all levels below it (e.g. SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_3 implies
> SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_2 and SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_1), so there is no need to
> include more than one level per track.
>
> VSA producers MAY add additional, non-SLSA properties to this field provided
> the values do not conflict with the definition of [SlsaResult]. VSA Producers

> > SHOULD negotiate the meaning of such properties with their intended verifier.

Reviewer 4: verifier -> consumer?

>
> This field MAY be absent if the verifier is not attesting to a specific SLSA

> > level.

Reviewer: Line 175 says required but here it says it's optional. Which is it?

If required, what does that mean? Is one of the SLSA_ results required? When we have more than one track, is it required to have an entry for each track?

> level implies all levels below it (e.g. SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_3 implies
> SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_2 and SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_1), so there is no need to
> include more than one level per track.
>

> > Users MAY add additional, non-SLSA properties to this field provided the

Reviewer 4: Users -> Producers and verifiers (VSA producers)?

> > values do not conflict with the definition of [SlsaResult]. Users SHOULD

Reviewer 4: Users -> Producers?

Reviewer 4: Other places to update (not currently updated in this PR but you may as well update them):
Users MUST count each dependency only once per SLSA track -> verifiers?
Users MUST NOT include more than one level per SLSA track -> verifiers?

> include more than one level per track.
>
> Users MAY add additional, non-SLSA properties to this field provided the
> values do not conflict with the definition of [SlsaResult]. Users SHOULD
> negotiate the meaning of such properties with their intended verifier.
>
> This field MAY be absent if the verifier is not attesting to a specific SLSA
> level.
>

> > This field MAY be set even if the `policy` field is not set.

Author: Done.

I added this note to address an earlier comment about the relationship between verifiedLevels and policy, but we can drop it now since How to Verify explains how to use optional fields in verification.

<div id="slsaresult">

## How to Verify

Verification SHOULD include the following steps

1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of trust.

> 2.  Verify the statemet's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in question.

Author: Done

3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

> 4.  Verify  the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to verify the signature in step 1.

Author: Done

5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected value.

Resulting threat mitigation: See
[Verifying artifacts](/spec/v1.0/verifying-artifacts) for details about which

> threats are addressed by verifying each SLSA level.

Reviewer 7: This doesn't seem particularly useful, especially as due to a change elsewhere in this PR a VSA may not indicate the SLSA level that `subject` has been verified to.

Author: Good point. I'll remove this paragraph.

<div id="slsaresult">

## How to Verify

Verification SHOULD include the following steps

1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of trust.
2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in question.
3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

> 4.  Verify  that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to verify the signature in step 1.

Reviewer 6: nit: extra space between "Verify" and "that"

<div id="slsaresult">

## How to Verify

> Verification SHOULD include the following steps

Reviewer: I think this could use more of an intro. This goes along with the comment about policy in the other thread. Perhaps something like:

"Suppose party X wants to delegate to party Y the decision for whether an artifact A is allowed to be published to resource R. To do so, party A checks the following..."

Then use X, Y, A, and R in the text below: signature and `verifier.id` match Y, `resourceUri` matches R, and so on.

Author: Done.

> 1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of trust.

Reviewer 4: verify `verificationResult` is missing?
verify level is missing?

Author: Done.

Rather than add `verifiedLevels` specifically, I called out that the verifier may need to check additional fields according to the consumer's goals.

2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in question.
3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.
4.  Verify that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to verify the signature in step 1.

> 5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected value.

Reviewer 3: The "resourceUri", and the associate policy, hence the verification claim, are from the perspective of the verifier.
So should this really be a match on the tuple (verifier, resourceUri)? i.e. organization A's verification on resource `foo://bar` are not the same as organization B's verification on the same resource `foo://bar`.

Reviewer 6: Hmm, my hope was that in many cases folks verifying VSAs can blanket trust the verifier for any claims it makes.  I can see how that might not always work out and depends on how the verifier is configured.

E.g. Org A always trusts Org A's verifier for all decisions, but Org A trusts npmjs's verifier for decisions about npms, but not for decisions about packages from PyPI.

Author: I prefer to verify the two fields separately because I don't think we really want to tie `resourceUri` directly to `verifier` (the field). I think what we really want is a way to tie URI patterns to the verifier (the identity).

I prefer to leave that association to post-verification policy, but I'm open to changing my mind. What about adding a pre-configured map of verifiers to URI patterns alongside the pre-configured root of trust?

Author: I see a VSA as making the statement "`verifier` believes `subject` passes/fails <claim>". The question of whether you care about that statement is a policy decision, not a matter of whether the VSA is valid.

Author: I realize now that my mental model of VSA verification is inconsistent with SLSA provenance verification, where we discard provenance if the verifier doesn't trust the build platform to attest to the stated SLSA level. The two should be more consistent, so yes, we should add a preconfigured mapping from verifiers to what they can attest.

Reviewer 6: Oh but it does mean something.  It means it passed whatever policy `verifier` had for the resource.  If the verifier is a trusted authority that's all many users will actually care about.

Author: Done.

I avoided the word "policy" for the same reasons we avoided "policy" in the provenance docs. I went with "meeting the consumer's goal," but I'm open to suggestions for other wording.

> <div id="slsaresult">

Reviewer 6: Should this div go down near line 352?  Should there be a different div id for 'how to verify'?

Reviewer: I actually think SlsaResult should move up here.

Reviewer 6: That's fine too, as long as they go together. :)

> ## How to verify

Reviewer: nit: again, it's unclear if this "verify" means produce or consume.

the consumer's goals 'verification'. Goals differ, as do levels of confidence
in VSA producers, so the verification procedure changes to suit its context.
However, there are certain steps that most verification procedures have in
common.

Verification MUST include the following steps:

1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of
    trust. This step ensures that the VSA was produced by a trusted producer
    and that it hasn't been tampered with.

2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in
    question. This step ensures that the VSA pertains to the intended artifact.

3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is
    `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`. This step ensures that the
    in-toto predicate is using this version of the VSA format.

4.  Verify that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to
    verify the signature in step 1. This step identifies the VSA producer in
    cases where their identity is not implicitly revealed in step 1.

5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected
    value. This step ensures that the consumer is using the VSA for the

>     producer's intended purpose.

Reviewer: This piece probably needs more fleshing out, perhaps in a separate PR. There have been many questions about what the resource URI is, e.g. #891.

> 6.  Verify that the value for `slsaResult` is `PASSED`. This step ensures the

Reviewer 6: Instead of `slsaResult` this should be `verificationResult`, right?

Reviewer: I think the confusion results from overlap in `verificationResult` and `verifiedLevels`. The latter also has a `FAILED` entry, and the name implies that it's only for PASSED. Should we deprecate `verificationResult` and just say `verifiedLevels` are only for things that passed?

I'm assuming the original intention was to support saying "I checked at L2 and it failed". If so, is that a foot gun?

Reviewer 6: So, if `verificationResult != 'PASSED'` then `verifiedLevels` must be empty?  If so, SGTM

    artifact is suitable for the consumer's purposes.

7.  Verify that `verifiedLevels` contains the expected value. This step ensures
    that the artifact is suitable for the consumer's purposes.

Verification MAY additionally contain the following step:

1.  (Optional) Verify additional fields required to determine whether the VSA
    meets your goal.

Verification mitigates different threats depending on the VSA's contents and the
verification procudure.

IMPORTANT: A VSA does not protect against compromise of the verifier, such as by
a malicious insider. Instead, VSA consumers SHOULD carefully consider which
verifiers they add to their roots of trust.

### Examples

1.  Suppose consumer C wants to delegate to verifier V the decision for whether
    to accept artifact A as resource R. Consumer C verifies that:

    -   The signature on the VSA envelope using V's public signing key from their
      preconfigured root of trust.

    -   `subject` is A.

    -   `predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

    -   `verifier.id` is V.

    -   `resourceUri` is R.

>     -   `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

Reviewer 6: As above, `verificationResult`

>     -   `verifiedLevels` contains `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED`.

Reviewer: I don't understand this piece. Why does someone check that the build level was unevaluated? If they don't care, shouldn't they just ignore it?

    Note: This example is analogous to traditional code signing. The expected
    value for `verifiedLevels` is arbitrary but prenegotiated by the producer and
    the consumer. The consumer does not need to check additional fields, as C
    fully delegates the decision to V.

2.  Suppose consumer C wants to enforce the rule "Artifact A at resource R must
    have a passing VSA from verifier V showing it meets SLSA Build Level 2+."
    Consumer C verifies that:

    -   The signature on the VSA envelope using V's public signing key from their
      preconfigured root of trust.

    -   `subject` is A.

    -   `predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

    -   `verifier.id` is V.

    -   `resourceUri` is R.

>     -   `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

Reviewer 6: `verificationResult`

    -   `verifiedLevels` is `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_2` or `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_3`.

    Note: In this example, verifying the VSA mitigates the same threats as
    verifying the artifact's SLSA provenance. See
    [Verifying artifacts](/spec/v1.0/verifying-artifacts) for details about which
    threats are addressed by verifying each SLSA level.

> ## _SlsaResult (String)_

Reviewer: Q: Should this enum name be changed to something not slsa specific?

</div>

The result of evaluating an artifact (or set of artifacts) against SLSA.
SHOULD be one of these values:

> -   SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED

Reviewer: What is the purpose of this new field? That's not clear to me.

<div id="slsaresult">

## How to verify

Consumers use VSAs to accomplish goals based on delegated trust. We call the
process of establishing a VSA's authenticity and determining whether it meets
the consumer's goals 'verification'. Goals differ, as do levels of confidence

> in VSA producers, so the verification procedure will changes to suit its

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in VSA producers, so the verification procedure changes to suit its
```

context. However, there are certain steps that most verification procedures
have in common.

> Verification SHOULD include the following steps:

Reviewer 4: Should some of these steps be a `MUST`? Can we use use `MUST` or `SHOULD` in each verification step?

> 1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of

Reviewer 2: As I was reading this list I was mentally filling in what each step accomplished or offered in terms of building trust. Would it be overkill for the intended audience if you added a few words to explain each step? I.e.,:

1. Verify the signature on the VSA envelope (establishes that the VSA has not been tampered with)
2. Verify that the statement's subject matches the digest (confirms that the VSA is attached to the correct artifact, of whatever...)
3. etc...

    trust.

2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in
    question.

3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is
    `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

4.  Verify that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to
    verify the signature in step 1.

5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected
    value.

6.  Verify that the value for `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

7.  Verify that `verifiedLevels` contains the expected value.

8.  (Optional) Verify additional fields required to determine whether the VSA
    meets your goal.

Verification mitigates different threats depending on the VSA's contents and the
verification procudure.

IMPORTANT: A VSA does not protect against compromise of the verifier, such as by
a malicious insider. Instead, VSA users SHOULD carefully consider which
verifiers they add to their roots of trust.

### Examples

> 1.  Suppose party X wants to delegate to party Y the decision for whether to

Reviewer 4: party X -> producer P (which also happens to be the consumer)?
party Y -> verifier V?

    accept artifact A as resource R. Party X verifies that:

    -   The signature on the VSA envelope using Y's public signing key from their
      preconfigured root of trust.

    -   `subject` is A.

    -   `predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

    -   `verifier.id` is Y.

    -   `resourceUri` is R.

    -   `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

    -   `verifiedLevels` contains `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED`.

    Note: This example is analogous to traditional code signing. The expected
    value for `verifiedLevels` is arbitrary but agreed to by the producer and

>     the verifier. The verifier does not need to check additional fields, as X

Reviewer 4: confused by this sentence `The verifier does not need to check additional fields` -> the consumer? But in the previous sentence `verifier` is correct.

    fully delegates the decision to Y.

> 2.  Suppose party X wants to enforce the rule "Artifact A at resource R must

Reviewer 2: How would you feel about a diagram here, or earlier in the page showing the process generally? Would it be overkill to show a high-level process diagram of who is creating what, who is verifying what, who is consuming that verification, etc?
Maybe not in scope of this PR, though!

Reviewer 4: +1 on having a diagram with names, and use the names consistently. I left a few comments where the use of `users`, `party`, `verifiers` (VSA consumer or VSA producer) is not always obvious to readers.

May even be simpler to call the "verifier" the "VSA producer" :)

iiuc, the examples in the text assume that the consumer is the same as the producer, and that's why the X and Y can negotiate. But that's not always the case: Example Chromium -> Google VSA -> consumers. Can we illustrate this example as well?

<div id="slsaresult">

> ## How to Verify

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
## How to verify
```
Nit: we usually only capitalise the initial word in a heading

context. However, there are certain steps that most verification procedures
have in common.

Verification SHOULD include the following steps:

1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of
    trust.

2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in
    question.

3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is
    `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

4.  Verify that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to
    verify the signature in step 1.

5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected
    value.

6.  Verify that the value for `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

7.  (Optional) Verify additional fields required to determine whether the VSA
    meets your goal.

Verification mitigates different threats depending on the VSA's contents and the
verification procudure.

IMPORTANT: A VSA does not protect against compromise of the verifier, such as by
a malicious insider. Instead, VSA users SHOULD carefully consider which
verifiers they add to their roots of trust.

### Examples

1.  Suppose party X wants to delegate to party Y the decision for whether to

>     accept  artifact A as resource R. Party X verifies that:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    accept artifact A as resource R. Party X verifies that:
```

<div id="slsaresult">

## How to Verify

Consumers use VSAs to accomplish goals based on delegated trust. We call the
process of establishing a VSA's authenticity and determining whether it meets
the consumer's goals 'verification'. Goals differ, as do levels of confidence
in VSA producers, so the verification procedure will changes to suit its
context. However, there are certain steps that most verification procedures
have in common.

Verification SHOULD include the following steps:

1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of
    trust.

2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in
    question.

3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is
    `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

4.  Verify that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to
    verify the signature in step 1.

5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected
    value.

6.  Verify that the value for `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

> 

Reviewer 4: note: also verify the expected level?

Unless this field is required, some end-users will forget to provide this level without realizing it's an important property.

Reviewer 6: Not all users will actually care about the SLSA build level and instead may just care that the verifier approved the thing.  See #801 for one example use case (though maybe they'll still use a publish attestation, unclear).

Another example use case is:

1. You have some script that downloads a tarball from cloud storage.
2. You want the script to verify the tarball before unpacking it.
3. The script can also fetch the attestation bundle next to the tarball <path>.intoto.jsonl
4. The script can verify the VSA in the bundle and ensure it passed according to the authority it trusts.
5. You don't want the script to care about the SLSA build level.  In this case the minimum build level you'd accept is set by the VSA issuer, and you explicitly want to delegate that decision to the VSA issuer.

Reviewer 6: > I thought about it a bit more and I think it's do-able to make the level optional in the specs, yet have verifiers make it mandatory in their API / interface. For example, in the slsa-verifier, I'd imagine having a `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_ANY` to force users to express their intent about levels and we'd make the level compulsory.

I like this.

> On the generation side, I could imagine having a SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNKNOWN to make it explicit because in general I prefer explicitness, but I don't have a very strong opinion beyond that. It kinda seems awkward to me to have VSA without levels in general, since the SLSA standard so heavily relies on levels in the first place. To some extent, it also encourages provenance verifiers to discard levels.

This could probably be fine.  Maybe `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED` if we thought people might not want to say it was 'UNKNOWN' (because that seems 'bad'?).

Reviewer 4: `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED` LGTM.

Reviewer 4: btw, if adding a unevaluated level feels overkill, feel free to skip. My main worry was around verification.

Author: Okay, I'm glad we were able to sort this out.

I've added `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_UNEVALUATED` to `slsaResult` and updated the first example to use it.

in VSA producers, so the verification procedure will changes to suit its
context. However, there are certain steps that most verification procedures
have in common.

Verification SHOULD include the following steps:

1.  Verify the signature on the VSA envelope using the preconfigured roots of
    trust.

2.  Verify the statement's `subject` matches the digest of the artifact in
    question.

3.  Verify that the `predicateType` is
    `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.

4.  Verify that the `verifier` matches the public key (or equivalent) used to
    verify the signature in step 1.

5.  Verify that the value for `resourceUri` in the VSA matches the expected
    value.

6.  Verify that the value for `slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

7.  (Optional) Verify additional fields required to determine whether the VSA
    meets your goal.

Verification mitigates different threats depending on the VSA's contents and the
verification procudure.

IMPORTANT: A VSA does not protect against compromise of the verifier, such as by
a malicious insider. Instead, VSA users SHOULD carefully consider which
verifiers they add to their roots of trust.

> ### Examples

Author: Done

1.  Suppose party X wants to delegate to party Y the decision for whether to

>    publish artifact A to resource R. Party X verifies that:

Author: Done

   -The signature on the VSA envelope using Y's public signing key from their
     preconfigured root of trust.
   -`subject` is A.
   -`predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.
   -`verifier.id` is Y.
   -`resourceUri` is R.
   -`slsaResult` is `PASSED`.

   Note: This example is analogous to traditional code signing. The verifier
   does not need to check additional fields, as X fully delegates the decision
   to Y.
2.  Suppose party X wants to enforce the rule "Artifact A at resource R must
   have a passing VSA from party Y showing it meets SLSA Build Level 2+ that
   is at most Z old." Party X verifies that:
   -The signature on the VSA envelope using Y's public signing key from their
   preconfigured root of trust.
   -`subject` is A.
   -`predicateType` is `https://slsa.dev/verification_summary/v1`.
   -`verifier.id` is Y.
   -`resourceUri` is R.
   -`slsaResult` is `PASSED`.
   -'verifiedLevels` is `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_2` or `SLSA_BUILD_LEVEL_3`.

>    -`timeVerified` is no earlier than the current time - Z.

Author: I'll just drop the reference to timeVerified from the example.
